---
title: Avatar The Legend Of Korra Season 1 Part 1 
pubDate: 2024-04-09
categories: ['Fiction']
tags: ['atla', 'musings', 'legend of korra']
description: 'My thoughts on the start of Legend of Korra'
---

# Legend of Korra in 2024 

## Introduction
I have an unpopular take on Legend of Korra: I like it a lot more than The Last Airbender. I can give some objective reasons for this (and maybe I will later), but honestly, I think my preference is mostly nostalgia. I watched Legend of Korra in its entirety before I watched all of the Last Airbender, so I wasn't expecting Korra to live up to some beloved childhood series. However, I did _start_ with watching The Last Airbender. When I was a kid, I had a habit where I'd watch the first season of a show, really like it, then forget about it while it was between seasons. Then I'd miss the season 2 premiere, and by the time I got back on the show, the plot would be so far ahead that I couldn't catch back up. That's what happened for me with Naruto, with One Piece, and for Avatar: The Last Airbender. I liked season 1 as a kid (although 10 year old me preferred Naruto), but I didn't hear about season 2 showing at all for several months. Then I watched a new episode and they were underground with some blind girl fighting spies with mind control abilities. I got very confused and turned the show off.

Korra's digital distribution solved that problem for me. When the show went online, it meant it didn't matter if I missed an episode. I watched it whenever I wanted. I skipped whole seasons, and then just binged them when all the episodes were out. For me, this was a lot better than trying to catch every episode of ATLA every single week in order (judging by Korra's online viewing numbers, I am basically the only person who felt this way, though). But my experience watching the avatar series for the first time was basically:
1. Watch the first season of ATLA when I was 12
2. 6 year hiatus
3. Watch Korra when I'm 18 and _finally_ have my own computer
4. Pirate ATLA and binge watch everything I missed when I was 12 (I get why everyone loves Zuko now, I thought he was just kind of a dick)

I think this gives me a different perspective on Korra than a lot of people on the internet. Now that it's 2024, and with the arrival of Netflix's adaptation of the original series, I thought it would be fun to watch Korra again, and see how it holds up. How do you follow up one of the greatest young adult stories of all time? How do you try to evolve it from what came before?

## Finding the Next Avatar
Being a sequel to ATLA, Korra is able to anticipate audience expectations, and manipulate them. Korra is the new avatar, so the audience knows that Aang is dead. This leaves them with obvious questions: How was he as an avatar? How did he die? Was his time violent, or peaceful? What does the world look like now? And of course there are the more basic questions: what's the new art like? will there be cool fight scenes? The opening takes a strong show, don't tell approach to answering all these questions. 

We start with a nearly identical opening to ATLA's famous elements, although this time we open with "earth" instead of "water," rotating one element in the avatar cycle. We can also recognize the silhouettes from ATLA. The earthbender this time is avatar Kyoshi, followed by her succeeding firebender avatar, Roku. The airbender, then, we can deduce is Aang as an adult. The waterbender is the title character Korra, and her bending gives the animators a chance to show off their new fluid special effects. The following exposition dump from the voice of J.K. Simmons gets us up to speed with the events of Aang's life, as well as paying homage to Katara's narration in the first episode of ATLA. It seems his life went pretty well. He had a kid and founded a city. As far as openings go, this is a good way to do it. The dump is short, it gets us familiar with a main character without directly introducing him, and puts the focus on the setting of this series, Republic City. This won't be like Aang's globe-trotting adventure. This is going to be focused on one place. There is one thing missing, though: conflict. ATLA was famous for its conflict statement "everything changed when the fire nation attacked." No such statement is found here. It seems Aang left Korra with a happy, peaceful utopia. This may be a writing misstep, but I think it's intentional. Aang was left a war to deal with when he was twelve years old. It wouldn't make sense for him to leave the world in a similar state for his successor, if he could prevent it. Whatever the conflict in Korra will be, it's something Aang could not have foreseen.

The first real scene follows white lotus members moving through a south pole blizzard to an igloo. The inside of the house is much nicer than any south pole house we saw in ATLA, and the man and woman who live there seem happy and well-fed, if not a little dirty and tired. Everything is going well, then. The white lotus is able to act openly in the world again, and the Southern Water Tribe has recovered so much it may even be better off than it was _before_ the hundred years war. All is well in the world.

Korra's introduction is strong as well. Her first line, "I'm the avatar, and you gotta deal with it!" immediately distinguishes her from Aang's more peaceful bearing. And with this three year old already bending earth, fire, and water, it's no wonder her mom looks so worn out. Korra is a strong, passionate, and hot-headed toddler. And she _wants_ to be the avatar.

The next training fight scene introduces Korra as a seventeen year old. It's also a chance to show off the new cg animation style, and the lighting especially has gotten a major improvement. Korra's a capable fighter already at this age, and Katara (in a water tribe, not white lotus, outfit) is impressed. "Shes' strong" she says, as Korra blasts a firebender onto a roof. It's a rather bland observation on its own, but it also shows her approval of this new avatar. The blandness of it may hint at a belief that Korra _is_ the avatar, regardless of Katara's opinion. The White Lotus members don't agree, though. "She lacks restraint" one man replies. Korra's too hot headed, not ready to be the avatar. There's politics at play. Korra needs permission from the White Lotus institution to become the avatar, something that Aang never had to seek out[^1]. This tension between Korra and the White Lotus is the first inkling of conflict we get in the series.

## Founding Republic City

[^1]: The White Lotus's new role of training the avatar is an odd one. The White Lotus was fully underground during the first series, and in the flashbacks to Roku they didn't take responsibility for training him. Where did this power come from? Did Aang give it to them? Did he set up this training rubric? Maybe he was hedging his bets against another attempt to kill the avatar, and gave the White Lotus the power to ensure the next avatar safely lived to adulthood. And why did they take Korra in so early? Is it because she picked up multiple bending styles so quickly, making her identity obvious? Maybe these questions will be answered later in the series.
